---
title: "First Measurement of the <i>B</i>(<i>E</i>2;3/2<sup>−</sup>→1/2<sup>−</sup>) Transition Strength in <sup>7</sup>Be: Testing <i>Ab Initio</i> Predictions for A=7 Nuclei"
collection: publications
permalink: publications/prc-99-064320-2019-7becoulex
date: 2019-06-18
venue: 'Physical Review C'
arxiv: 2109.07312
doi: 10.1103/PhysRevC.99.064320
paperurl: 'https://www.patrickfasano.com/files/prc-99-064320-2019-7becoulex_PREPRINT.pdf'
citation: 'S. L. Henderson, T. Ahn, M. A. Caprio, P. J. Fasano, et al., Phys. Rev. C 99, 064320 (2019).'
status: published
---
Electromagnetic observables are able to give insight into collective 
and emergent features in nuclei, including nuclear clustering. These 
observables also provide strong constraints for _ab initio_ theory, 
but comparison of these observables between theory and experiment can 
be difficult due to the lack of convergence for relevant calculated 
values, such as $E2$ transition strengths. By comparing the ratios of 
$E2$ transition strengths for mirror transitions, we find that a wide 
range of _ab initio_ calculations give robust and consistent predictions 
for this ratio. To experimentally test the validity of these _ab initio_ 
predictions, we performed a Coulomb excitation experiment to measure 
the $B(E2;3/2^− \rightarrow 1/2^−)$ transition strength in <sup>7</sup>Be 
for the first time. A $B(E2;3/2^− \rightarrow 1/2^−) value of 
$26(6)_{\mathrm{stat}}(3)_{\mathrm{syst}}\,e^2\fm^4$ was deduced from 
the measured Coulomb excitation cross section. This result is used with 
the experimentally known <sup>7</sup>Li $B(E2;3/2^− \rightarrow 1/2^−)$ 
value to provide an experimental ratio to compare with the _ab initio_ 
predictions. Our experimental value is consistent with the theoretical 
ratios within $1\sigma$ uncertainty, giving experimental support for 
the value of these ratios. Further work in both theory and experiment 
can give insight into the robustness of these ratios and their physical meaning. 
